Discovered Stacks launch content: docs, announcement blog, and CF migration tutorial (#20310)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/insights/discovery/discovered-stacks/migrate.md

---
title: Migrate from a Discovered Stack
title_tag: "Migrate from a Discovered Stack | Pulumi Insights"
h1: Migrate from a Discovered Stack
meta_desc: Migrate CloudFormation and ARM resources from a discovered stack to Pulumi IaC with Neo, import commands, or your own agent, verified by a zero-diff preview.
meta_image: /images/docs/meta-images/docs-meta.png
menu:
  insights:
    name: Migrate to Pulumi
    parent: insights-discovery-discovered-stacks
    weight: 10
aliases: []
---

> Migrating from a [discovered stack](/docs/insights/discovery/discovered-stacks/) means bringing its resources under Pulumi management: a Pulumi program in your repository whose state matches the cloud exactly. The console is where you plan the migration, decide what to include, and track progress — the migration itself completes as code and CLI operations in your own repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating from a [discovered stack](/docs/insights/discovery/discovered-stacks/) means bringing its resources under Pulumi IaC management: a Pulumi program in your repository whose state matches the cloud exactly. The console is where you plan the migration, decide what to include, and track progress — the migration itself completes as code and CLI operations in your own repository.
```

A migration is done when three things are true:

1. Every discovered resource is either imported or deliberately resolved.
1. `pulumi preview` on the target stack reports no changes, proving the code matches the cloud state.
1. The program lands in your repository as the new source of record — from here on, changes to those resources happen through Pulumi.

## Before you begin

- A discovered stack, created by an [Insights account scan](/docs/insights/discovery/accounts/) of the cloud account that holds your CloudFormation or ARM resources.
- A git repository where the generated Pulumi program will live.
- Cloud credentials that match the source account, ideally through a [Pulumi ESC environment](/docs/esc/).

## Start a migration

> From a discovered stack, the **Actions** menu offers two ways in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a discovered stack, the **Actions** menu offers two ways to bring the resources under Pulumi IaC management:
```

- **Migrate with Neo** (recommended): [Pulumi Neo](/docs/ai/) runs the whole workflow — it fetches the discovered resources, imports them, reconciles the preview, and opens a pull request with a migration report.
- **Generate Import Commands**: produce the corresponding [`pulumi import`](/docs/iac/guides/migration/import/) commands to run in your own terminal.

> Both paths work against the same resource data and statuses — and all of it is exposed through a [REST API](#use-the-api). So you can run the whole flow locally — reading resources and their statuses, driving the imports, and recording decisions — and the console reflects the progress. A reusable Pulumi agent skill that packages this workflow will be published.

Reviewer: This paragraph reads a little lazy. Suggested improvements:

1. Link to the specific REST API methods (and ok to wait to publish this guide in a separate PR right after the REST API is updated)
2. Show some examples of the cURL commands or what have you.

## Set up your local project

> **Migrate with Neo** scaffolds and wires up the project for you, so you can skip this section. If you chose **Generate Import Commands**, or you're driving the migration with your own agent, you first connect a local Pulumi project to the stack you created in the console — the import commands assume that project already exists.

Reviewer: This paragraph feels like it should have some links to Neo capabilities (tasks, etc.)

```bash
# Create a stack
pulumi stack init <stackName>
```

Set cloud credentials the way you would for any Pulumi program — a [Pulumi ESC environment](/docs/esc/) is the most reliable. With the project attached, run the generated import commands and continue below.

## How a migration works

> Whether Neo runs it or you do, a migration follows the same arc:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether Neo performs the migration or you do, a migration follows the same steps:
```

1. **Triage.** Fetch the discovered resources and review the status breakdown. Resources marked **Ready** are importable now; **Not found** and **No exact match** resources get resolved along the way (see [below](#resolve-not-found-and-no-exact-match-resources)).

> 1. **Import.** Bring resources into the target stack with `pulumi import --generate-code`, appending the generated code to your program. `pulumi import` writes state as it goes, so migration statuses in the console update live as resources land in the target stack.

Reviewer: Not sure why `--generate-code` is needed here. Isn't it the default?

> 1. **Reconcile.** Run `pulumi preview` and fix the code until it reports no changes. A clean preview is the quality gate: it proves the program matches the actual cloud state. Never run `pulumi up` to make a diff go away — that changes the cloud to match the code, when the goal is the opposite. Freshly imported code often shows a diff on the first preview even when nothing in the cloud changed; see [Tips for a clean migration](#tips-for-a-clean-migration) for the common ones and how to clear them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Reconcile.** Run `pulumi preview` and fix the code until it reports no changes. A clean preview is the quality gate: it proves the program matches the actual cloud state. When attempting to import resources managed from outside of Pulumi IaC, never run `pulumi up` to make a diff go away — doing so will change the state of your resource in the cloud to match the (in this case, incomplete) code. (In this scenario, your resource, as it exists in the cloud, is the source of truth. Freshly imported code often shows a diff on the first preview even when nothing in the cloud changed; see [Tips for a clean migration](#tips-for-a-clean-migration) for the common ones and how to clear them.
```

{{% notes "info" %}}

> No `pulumi up` is required to complete a migration. `pulumi import` already syncs the imported state to Pulumi Cloud; from then on, you use `pulumi up` for ordinary changes to the now-managed resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No `pulumi up` is required to complete a migration. `pulumi import` already syncs the imported state to your state file Pulumi Cloud. Once all of your resources have been imported with a clean diff, you use `pulumi up` for future changes to the resources which are now managed by Pulumi IaC.
```
